Value Offer: Creating Your Grand Slam Offer Part I:
Problems & Solutions
“ABC, Easy as 123 Ah, simple as do re mi”
- Michael Jackson, “ABC”
When I started my gym, I struggled. I wanted so deeply to be successful,
prove my dad wrong about my decision to start my own business, and prove to
myself that I was worth something. But try as I did, I couldn't even sell people
into a $99/mo bootcamp. People would say, “LA Fitness is $29/mo. This is
expensive.” I even tried getting people to start for free. They said they wouldn't
bother because $99/mo afterwards was still too much, and they didn't want to
start something they wouldn't continue with.
It’s a new level of frustration when you can’t even give your services away for
free to people. I felt worthless, and I didn't know what to do. Thankfully,
during this time, I was in groups with other gym owners, and I started hearing
about marketers and books. I devoured everything I could. And as soon as I
stumbled on Dan Kennedy’s books, I was hooked.
In his books, he talked about making “irresistible offers.” Again, this theme
of “making an offer so good people would feel stupid to say no” kept re-
appearing. But this time, remembering what TJ had told me, I decided to go all
in on this concept, rather than just do what everyone else was doing.
But how? Everyone else was selling $99/mo bootcamps. How was I going to
compete? So I decided to look at what we did differently. I thought — what do
they really want? No one wants a membership; they want to lose weight.
Step #1: Identify Dream Outcome
I had heard of weight loss challenges, so I started there.
Lose 20lbs in 6 weeks.
Big dream outcome - lose 20lbs.
With a decreased time delay - 6 weeks.
Note: I wasn't selling my membership anymore. I wasn’t selling the plane
flight. I was selling the vacation. When you are thinking about your dream
outcome, it has to be them arriving at their destination and what they would
like to experience.
Step #2: List Problems
Next, I wrote down all the things people struggled with and their limiting
thoughts around them. When listing out problems, think about what happens
immediately before and immediately after someone uses your product/service.
What's the “next” thing they need help with? These are all the problems. Think
about it in insane detail. If you do, you will create a more valuable and
compelling offer as you’ll continually be answering people’s next problem as it
manifests..
So, let’s go ahead and list out the problems from a prospect’s perspective as
you think about them. What points of friction exist for them? I like to think in
the sequence that the customer will experience each of these obstacles. Again,
channel insane detail (the more problems the better!).
Example Problem List: Weight Loss
First thing they must do: Buying healthy food, grocery shopping
1) Buying healthy food is hard, confusing, and I won’t like it
2) Buying healthy food will take too much time
3) Buying healthy food is expensive
4) I will not be able to cook healthy food forever. My family’s needs will get
in my way. If I travel I won’t know what to get.
Next thing they must do: Cooking healthy food
1) Cooking healthy food is hard and confusing. I won’t like it, and I will
suck at it.
2) Cooking healthy food will take too much time
3) Cooking healthy food is expensive. It’s not worth it.
4) I will not be able to buy healthy food forever. My family’s needs will get
in my way. If I travel I won’t know how to cook healthy.
Next thing they must do: Eating healthy food
1) Etc...
Next thing they must do: Exercise Regularly
1) Etc...
Now we’re gonna go full circle here. Each of the above problems has four
negative elements. And you guessed it, each aligns with the four value drivers
as well.
1) Dream Outcome→ This will not be financially worth it
2) Likelihood of Achievement→ It won’t work for me specifically. I won't
be able to stick with it. External factors will get in my way. (This is the
most unique and service-specific of the problem buckets).
3) Effort & Sacrifice→ This will be too hard, confusing. I won’t like it. I
will suck at it.
4) Time→ This will take too much time to do. I am too busy to do this. It
will take too long to work. It won’t be convenient for me.
Now, go ahead and list out all the problems your prospect has. Don’t let
these buckets, which are just meant to get your brain going, constrain you. If
it’s easier for you, just list out everything you can possibly think of.
What I showed here isn’t just four problems, though. We have 16 core
problems with two to four sub problems underneath. So 32 to 64 problems
total. Yowza. No wonder most people don't achieve their goals. Do not get
overwhelmed. This is the best news ever. The more problems you think of, the
more problems you get to solve.
So, to recap, just list out each core thing that someone has to do. Then think
of all the reasons they wouldn't be able to do it or keep doing it (using the four
value drivers as a guide).
Now we get to the fun part: turning problems into solutions.
Step #3: Solutions List
Now that we have our dream outcome and all the obstacles that will get in
someone’s way, it’s time to define our solutions and list them out.
Creating the solutions list has two steps. First, we are going to transform our
problems into solutions. Second, we are going to name these solutions. That’s
it. So let’s take a look at our list of problems from earlier. What we’re going to
do is simply turn them into solutions by thinking, “What would I need to show
someone to solve this problem?” Then we are going to reverse each element of the
obstacle into solution-oriented language. This is copywriting 101. It’s beyond
the scope of this book to get into, but simply adding “how to” then reversing
the problem will give most people new to this process a great place to start.
For our purposes, we are giving ourselves a checklist of exactly what we are
going to have to do for our prospects and what we are going to solve for them.
Once we have our list of solutions, we will operationalize how we are actually
going to solve these problems (create value) in the next step. And I want to be
100 percent clear. You will solve every problem. We’ll explore how together, in
the next step.
PROBLEM→ SOLUTION
PROBLEM: Buying healthy food, grocery shopping
. . . is hard, confusing, I won’t like it. I will suck at it→ How to make buying
healthy food easy and enjoyable, so that anyone can do it (especially busy
moms!)
. . . takes too much time→ How to buy healthy food quickly
. . . is expensive→ How to buy healthy food for less than your current
grocery bill
. . . is unsustainable→ How to make buying healthy food take less effort than
buying unhealthy food
. . . is not my priority. My family’s needs will get in my way→ How to buy
healthy food for you and your family at the same time
. . . is undoable if I travel; I won’t know what to get→ How to get healthy
food when traveling
PROBLEM: Cooking healthy food
. . . is hard, confusing. I won’t like it, and I will suck at it→ How anyone can
enjoy cooking healthy meals easily
. . . will take too much time→ How to cook meals in under 5 minutes
. . . is expensive, it’s not worth it→ How eating healthy is actually cheaper
than unhealthy food
. . . is unsustainable → How to make eating healthy last forever
. . . is not my priority, my family’s needs will get in my way→ How to cook
this despite your families concerns
. . . is undoable if I travel I won’t know how to cook healthy→ How to travel
and still cook healthy
PROBLEM: Eating healthy food
. . . is hard, confusing, and I won’t like it→ How to eat delicious healthy
food, without following complicated systems
. . . etc.
PROBLEM: Exercise Regularly
. . . is hard, confusing, and I won’t like it, and I will suck at it → Easy to
follow exercise system that everyone enjoys
….etc.
Okay, whew. That’s a lot of problems (and a lot of intuited solutions courtesy
of divergent thinking). You’ll also notice that a lot of them are repetitive. That’s
totally normal. The value drivers are the four core reasons. Our problems
always relate to those drivers, and our solutions provide the needed answer to
give a prospect permission to purchase. What's even crazier: is that if only one of
these needs is missing in a solution, it can cause someone not to buy. You would
be amazed at the reasons people do not buy. So don’t limit yourself here.
Brooke Castillo is a friend who runs an enormous life coaching business. To
give you a different take on the problems-solutions list, Brooke sent me her list
as she was going through this book to make a Grand Slam Offer for a 90-Day
Relationship course. Take a look to see this process through a totally different
lens. The main takeaway, though: Don’t be fancy. Just get all the problems down
then turn them into solutions.
Regardless of whether the offer you’re creating is around fitness (like the
example), a relationship course (like Brooke), or something wildly different
(like ear aches), we now know what we need to do. Step four is the how (and
how to do it without breaking the bank).



Value Offer: Creating Your Grand Slam Offer Part II:
Trim & Stack
“Cut! Cut! Cut!”-Friends to Rachel Green in Friends
I divided this chapter into two parts because it’s the meatiest section in the
book. It’s also the most important. Without a valuable product or service, the
rest of the book won’t be as actionable. We just covered all the problems we are
going to solve. The second half of making your offer is breaking down
tactically what we are going to do/provide for our client. In theory, we’d all
love to fly out and live with our customers to fix their problems. In reality, that
wouldn’t make a very scalable business. We need our offer to be incredibly
attractive and profitable.
That being said, if this is your first Grand Slam Offer, it’s important to over-
deliver like crazy. Maybe flying out isn’t such a bad idea in the beginning. Make
some sales, then think about how to make it easier for your clients. You want
them to think to themselves, “I get all this, for only that?” In essence, you want
them to perceive tremendous value.
Everyone buys bargains. Some people just buy $100,000 things for only
$10,000. That’s where we want to live: high prices, but a steal for the value (like
hopefully this book so far).
Sales to Fulfillment Continuum
In order to best absorb the notions of trimming and stacking, we need a
mental reframe. Enter the sales to fulfillment continuum.
Whenever you are building a business, you have a continuum between ease
of fulfillment and ease of sales. If you lower what you have to do, it increases
how hard your product or service is to sell. If you do as much as possible, it
makes your product or service easy to sell but hard to fulfill because there’s
more demand on your time investment. The trick, and the ultimate goal, is to
find a sweet spot where you sell something very well that’s also easy to fulfill.
I have always lived by the mantra, “Create flow. Monetize flow. Then add
friction.” This means I generate demand first. Then, with my offer, I get them
to say yes. Once I have people saying yes, then, and only then, will I add
friction in my marketing, or decide to offer less for the same price.
Practicality drives this practice. If you can’t get demand flowing in, then you
have no idea whether what you have is good. I’d rather do more for every
customer and have cash flow coming in, then optimize my business but have
zero cash flow coming in after (and zero idea about what I need to adjust to
better serve my customers).
Here’s a perfect example to drive this home. When I started Gym Launch,
gym owners reached out asking me to help. They needed so much help, I didn’t
know where to start. But I wanted to make sure they got way more than they
paid me. So here’s what I ended up doing to fill their gyms: I would fly out to
their gym for 21 days, spend my own money on hotels, car rentals, eating out,
advertising, generate the leads, work the leads, then sell for them. I would even
do the first onboarding meeting with clients to get them started. In short, I did
everything. I took on all the risk.
They only had to put down $500 to “reserve” their date, which I made
refundable at the end of their launch. So they had 0 financial risk, 0 time risk, 0
effort, and the deal was, I got to keep all the up front cash collected from
selling their services, and they got clients for free. You can imagine how this
was a pretty compelling offer.
On my own, I was able to sell about $100,000/mo in upfront cash for myself.
So these deals were very lucrative for me. Over time, I scaled that to a team of
8 guys selling every month. But this began to wear on me and the team. It was
at that point that I realized that if I were to simply teach them how to do what
I did, I could charge maybe a third of what I would normally make, but I
would be able to help hundreds of gyms a month instead of eight. And, I could
do it all sleeping in my own bed every night.
My promise was fundamentally the same: I will fill your gym in 30 days. It
was simply the how and what I did that changed. The how and what is what we are
breaking apart.
When talking to business owners about their model, I tell them to create
cash flow by over-delivering like crazy at first. Then use the cash flow to fix
your operations and make your business more efficient. This revision process
can be pretty seamless. You may not even have to change what you offer. You
may just end up creating systems that create the same value for the customer
but cost you significantly less resources.
Ultimately this is how businesses beat one another. Understanding this will
be important as you scale your business.
Now that we’ve established the importance of the fulcrum and how to
approach the sales-fulfillment balance at the outset, let’s cover the last two steps
of creating our Grand Slam offer. To recap quickly, remember that we covered
identifying dream outcomes (step one), listing problems (step two), and
determining solutions (step three).
Step #4 Create Your Solutions Delivery Vehicles (“The How”)
The next step is thinking about all the things you could do to solve each of
these problems you’ve identified. This is the most important step in this
process. This is what you are going to deliver. This is what you are going to do
or provide in exchange for money.
For the purposes of keeping creativity high (divergent thinking), think about
anything you could possibly do. Think of all the things that might enhance the value
of your offer. So much so that they would be stupid to say no.
What could you do that someone would immediately say, “All that?
Seriously? Yes, I'm in.”
Doing this exercise will make your job of selling So. Much. Easier.
Even if you come up with something you’re not actually willing to do, it’s
okay. The goal here is to push your limits and jog your brain into thinking of a
different version of the solution you’d normally default to. This is where you
get to flex your entrepreneurial creativity.
Reminder: You only need to do this once. Literally one time for a product that
may last years. This is high-value, high-leverage work. You ultimately get paid
for thinking. You got this. This should be fun. Go ahead and list out all your
possibilities now. Then I’ll take you through my example. I’ll just use the
buying food problem from earlier as an example. I like to group things by how
many people I'm going to deliver this thing to at once.
My list is below. And at the bottom, I’ve given you my “cheat codes” for how
I think through this to get even more creative.
Problem: Buying Healthy Food Is Hard, Confusing, and I Won’t Like
It
If I wanted to provide a one-on-one solution I might offer . . .
a) In-person grocery shopping, where I take clients to the store and teach
them how to shop
b) Personalized grocery list, where I teach them how to make their list
c) Full-service shopping, where I buy their food for them. We’re talking
100 percent done for them.
d) In-person orientation (not at store), where I teach them what to get
e) Text support while shopping, where I help them if they get stuck
f) Phone call while grocery shopping, where I plan to call when they go
shopping to provide direction and support
If I wanted to provide a small group solution I might offer . . .
a) In-person grocery shopping, where I meet a bunch of people and take
them all shopping for themselves
b) Personalized grocery list, where I teach a bunch of people how to
make their weekly lists. I could do this one time or every week if I
wanted to.
c) Buy their food for them, where I purchase their groceries and deliver
them as well
d) In-person orientation, where I teach a small group offsite what to do
(not at store)
If I wanted to provide a one to many solution I might offer . . .
a) Live grocery tour virtual, where I might live stream me going through
the grocery store for all my new customers and let them ask questions
live
b) Recorded grocery tour, where I might shop once, record it, then give it
as a reference point from that point onwards for my clients to watch
on their own
c) DIY grocery calculator, where I create a shareable tool or show them
how to use a tool to calculate their grocery list
d) Predetermined lists, where each customer plan comes with its own
grocery list for each week. I could make this ahead of time so they have
it. Then they could use it on their own time
e) Grocery buddy system, where I could pair customers all up, which
takes no time really, and let them go shopping together
f) Pre-made, insta-cart grocery carts for delivery, where I could pre-make
insta-cart lists so clients could have their groceries delivered to their
doorstep with one click
As you see, the list can really go on and on here. This is just to illustrate the
many ways to solve a single problem.
Now do this for all of the perceived problems that your clients encounter
before, after, and during their experience with your service/products. You
should have a monster list by the end of this.
Product Delivery Cheat Codes
What’s that? You’re having trouble being creative? I'm going to give you the
cheat codes right now, kind of like I did with the brick example: “the brick
could be gold, or plastic, or have holes in it, or be a lego, etc.” Here are my
“cheat codes” for product variation/enhancement and a visual to break down
the process for you from my consulting deck:
a) What level of personal attention do I want to provide? one-on-one, small
group, one to many
b) What level of effort is expected from them? Do it themselves (DIY) -
figure out how to do it on their own; do it with them (DWY) - you teach
them how to do it; done for them (DFY) - you do it for them
c) If doing something live, what environment or medium do I want to
deliver it in? In-person, phone support, email support, text support,
Zoom support, chat support
d) If doing a recording, how do I want them to consume it? Audio, video,
or written.
e) How quickly do we want to reply? On what days? During what hours?
24/7. 9-5, within 5 minutes, within an hour, within 24 hrs.?
f) 10x to 1/10th test. If my customers paid me 10x my price (or $100,000)
what would I provide? If they paid me 1/10th the price and I had to make
my product more valuable than it already is, how would I do that? How
could I still make them successful for 1/10th price? Stretch your mind in
either direction and you’ll come up with widely different solutions.
In other words, how could I actually deliver on these solutions I am claiming
I will provide. Do this for each problem because solutions from one problem
will give you ideas for others you wouldn’t normally have considered.
Remember, it’s important that you solve every problem. I can’t tell you the
amount of times one single item becomes the reason someone doesn't buy.
Step #5: Trim & Stack
Now that we have enumerated our potential solutions, we will have a
gigantic list. Next, I look at the cost of providing these solutions to me (the
business). I remove the ones that are high cost and low value first. Then I
remove low cost, low value items.
If you aren’t sure what’s high value, go through the value equation and ask
yourself which of these things will this person:
1) Financially value
2) Cause them to believe they will be likely to succeed
3) Make them feel like they can do it with much less effort and sacrifice
4) Help them accomplish their goal and see the result they want with far
less time investment.
What should remain are offer items that are 1) low cost, high value and 2)
high cost, high value.
Example: Let’s say I moved in with someone and did their shopping,
exercising, and cooking for them. They would probably believe they would
definitely lose weight. But I am not willing to do that for any amount of money
short of a gazillion dollars.
The next question becomes, is there a lesser version of this experience that I
can deliver at scale?
Just take one step back at a time until you arrive at something that has a time
commitment or cost you are willing to live with (or, obviously, massively
increase your price so it becomes worth it for you — i.e., the gazillion dollars
to live with someone).
If there’s one type of delivery vehicle to focus on, it’s creating high value, “one
to many” solutions. These will be the ones that typically have the biggest
discrepancy between cost and value. For example, before I started my first gym,
I had an online training business. I created a small excel sheet application that
after inputting all of someone’s goals, automatically generated over 100 meals
perfectly suited to their macronutrient and calorie needs. Better yet, depending
which meals they selected, would tell them what they needed to buy at the
grocery store in exact amounts, and how to prepare them in bulk for their exact
amounts. It took me about 100 hours to put the whole thing together. But
from that point going forward I sold truly personalized eating plans for very
expensive prices, but they only took me about 15 minutes to make. High value.
Low cost.
These types of solutions require a high, one-time cost of creation, but
infinitely low additional effort after. (FYI - This is exactly why software
becomes so valuable).
That doesn’t mean you don’t ever want to do something in a small group or
one-on-one model. After all, I do 1-on-1 with all of my portfolio company
CEOs that we help scale past $30m+. You just want to make sure you save
those high cost items for big value adds only. If you think you can accomplish
the same value with a lower cost alternative, then do that instead.
When I was running my gym, I went through this exercise and created:
bulking blueprints, an eating-out system, a travel eating and workout guide,
meal plans for every body weight and gender, a grocery list calculator, plateau
busting meal plans (for when they got stuck), fast cooking guides partnered
with meal prep services, and did in-person nutrition orientations with every
client one-on-one.
Many of the “one to many” solutions require more up front work. Once
created, however, they become valuable assets that create value in perpetuity.
It’s worth putting in the time to create these because they will create high
margin profit for years to come.
Real talk: the meal plans I made for my gym have been used by 4,000+ gyms
now and literally hundreds of thousands of people. They are simple and easy to
follow. So they have provided ample return for the week or two of dedicated
time I spent making them.
And if you ever have the desire to build a repeatable business model,
something that scales, these assets you create will become the bedrock. This
book, for example, is a high-value asset that is low cost overall. Sure, it costs
me a lot up front, but each additional book I sell after my first one costs me
very little and provides tremendous value.
The Final High Value Deliverable
Let’s sum this up before we configure our final high value deliverable.
Step #1: We figured out our prospective client's dream outcome.
Step #2: We listed out all the obstacles they’re likely to encounter on their
way (our opportunities for value).
Step #3: We listed all those obstacles as solutions.
Step #4: We figured out all the different ways we could deliver those
solutions.
Step #5a: We trimmed those ways down to only the things that were the
highest value and lowest cost to us.
All we have to do now is…
Step #5b: Put all the bundles together into the ultimate high value
deliverable.
So let’s go back to the example. We see our prospects struggled with the
following:
Buying food→ How anyone can buy food fast, easy, cheaply → Foolproof
Bargain Grocery System . . . that’ll save hundreds of dollars per month on your
food and take less time than your current shopping routine ($1,000 value for
the money it'll save you from this point on in your life)
a. 1-on-1 Nutrition Orientation where I explain how to use…
b. Recoded grocery tour
c. DIY Grocery Calculator
d. Each plan comes with it’s own list for each week
e. Bargain grocery shopping training
f. Grocery Buddy System
g. Pre-made insta-cart grocery carts for delivery
h. And a check-in via text weekly.
Cooking→ Ready in 5 min Busy Parent Cooking Guide . . . how anyone can eat
healthy even if they have no time ($600 value from getting 200 hours per year
back — that’s four weeks of work!)
a) 1-on-1 Nutrition Orientation where I explain how to use…
b) Meal Prep Instructions
c) DIY Meal Prep Calculator
d) Each plan comes with it’s own meal prep instructions for each week
e) Meal prep buddy system
f) Healthy snacks in under 5 min guide
g) A weekly post they make to tag me for feedback
Eating→ Personalized Lick Your Fingers Good Meal Plan . . . so good it’ll be
easier to follow than eating what you used to “cheat” with and cost less! ($500
value)
a) 1-on-1 Nutrition Orientation where I explain how to use…
b) Personalized Meal Plan
c) 5 min Morning shake guide
d) 5 min Budget Lunches
e) 5 min Budget Dinners
f) Family size meals
g) A daily picture of their meals
h) 1-on-1 feedback meeting to make adjustments to their plan (and upsell
them)
Exercise→ Fat Burning Workouts Proven To Burn More Fat Than Doing It
Alone . . . adjusted to your needs so you never go too fast, plateau, or risk
injury ($699 value)
Traveling→ The Ultimate Tone Up While You Travel Eating & Workout
Blueprint . . . for getting amazing workouts in with no equipment so you don't
feel guilty enjoying yourself ($199 value)
How to actually stick with it→ The “Never Fall Off” Accountability System . . .
the unbeatable system that works without your permission (it’s even gotten
people who hate coming to the gym to look forward to showing up) ($1000
value)
How To Be Social→ The ‘Live It Up While Slimming Down” Eating Out
System that will give you the freedom to eat out and live life without feeling
like the “odd man out” ($349 value)
Total value: $4,351 (!) All for only $599.
Can you see how much more valuable this is than a gym membership? The bundle
does three core things:
1) Solves all the perceived problems (not just some)
2) Gives you the conviction that what you’re selling is one of a kind (very
important)
3) Makes it impossible to compare or confuse your business or offering
with the one down the street
Whew! We finally have what we are going to deliver in all its glory. That
being said, it is unlikely we would present it in this way. Depending on whether
we sell one on one or one to many, we would present this differently. I will
address how to present each of these bundled items in the bonus section (next
section).
Summary Points
We went through this entire process to accomplish one objective: to create a
valuable offer that is differentiated and unable to be compared to anything else
in the marketplace. We are selling something unique. As such, we are no longer
bound by the normal pricing forces of commoditization. Prospects will now
only make a value-based rather than a price-based decision on whether they should
buy from us. Hoorah!
Now that we have our core offer, the next section will be dedicated to
enhancing it. We will employ a combination of psychological levers: bonuses,
urgency, scarcity, guarantees, and naming.